# Transfer Learning
Transfer learning is a highly effective technique, particularly useful in applications where data is limited. It works by utilizing data from a different but related task to help your application. 

## What is Transfer Learning?
Assume you need to recognize handwritten digits from zero through nine, but you have a scarce amount of labeled data. You can, however, find a large dataset of one million images comprising a thousand classes (e.g., cats, dogs, cars, people). The idea is to initially train a neural network on this large dataset and use this knowledge to recognize any of the 1,000 different classes.

During the training process, the network learns parameters for each layer. To apply transfer learning, copy the neural network, retaining parameters of all layers except the last one, which is replaced with a smaller output layer having just ten (instead of 1,000) output units corresponding to the digit classes (0-9) you want the network to recognize.

Note that the parameters of the last layer can't be copied because the layer's dimension has changed. Therefore, new parameters need to be trained from scratch. Then, run an optimization algorithm with these parameters to further train the network.

There are two ways to train this neural network:

- **Option 1:** Only train the output layer's parameters and leave the others unchanged.
- **Option 2:** Train all the parameters in the network, initializing the first $n$ layers' parameters using the pre-trained values.

## Why does Transfer Learning work?
Training a neural network to detect diverse objects from images helps it to learn to detect pretty generic features of images, like edges, corners, curves, and basic shapes. This knowledge can be beneficial for many other computer vision tasks, like recognizing handwritten digits.

It's worth noting that the type of input (e.g., image, audio, text) used for pre-training and fine-tuning should be the same. For instance, if the final task is a computer vision task, the pre-training should also be done using an image-based neural network.

## Transfer Learning Steps
- **Step 1:** Download (or train) a neural network with parameters pre-trained on a large dataset of the same input type as your application.
- **Step 2:** Further train or fine-tune the network on your data.

Transfer learning isn't a panacea — it can't solve every problem with only a handful of images. But it does offer significant advantages when the dataset for your application isn't that large.